README.md, before:

# Nimittam

> Privacy-first, on-device Large Language Model inference for Android

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![API](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-31%2B-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](https://android-arsenal.com/api?level=31)
[![Kotlin](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kotlin-2.0-blue.svg)](https://kotlinlang.org)

## Overview

Nimittam is a privacy-first Android application that brings Large Language Model (LLM) inference directly to your device. Built on Apache TVM's MLC-LLM framework, it enables real-time AI conversations without sending your data to external servers.

### Key Features

- 🔒 **Privacy-First**: All inference happens on-device; no data leaves your phone
- ⚡ **Real-Time Performance**: 15-30 tokens/second with GPU acceleration
- 🔋 **Adaptive Power Management**: Automatically adjusts to battery and thermal conditions
- 💾 **Smart Caching**: Multi-level cache system for responsive interactions
- 🌙 **Modern UI**: Jetpack Compose with glassmorphism design
- 📱 **Offline Capable**: Works without internet connection

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Presentation Layer                        │
│  ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐         │
│  │  ChatScreen  │ │ HistoryScreen│ │SettingsScreen│         │
│  └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘         │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                      Domain Layer                            │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │                   LlmEngine Interface                   │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
│  ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐         │
│  │MlcLlmEngine  │ │ ModelManager │ │HardwareDetector│        │
│  └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘         │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                      Service Layer                           │
│  ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐         │
│  │   Performance│ │    Memory    │ │     Cache    │         │
│  │   Monitor    │ │   Manager    │ │   Manager    │         │
│  └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘         │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                       Data Layer                             │
│  ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐         │
│  │  Room DB     │ │  DataStore   │ │  File System │         │
│  └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘         │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Documentation

Our comprehensive documentation suite follows IEEE/ACM software engineering standards:

### 📚 Documentation Hub
- **[Documentation Index](docs/index.md)** - Start here for navigation

### 🏗️ Architecture
- **[Overview](docs/architecture/overview.md)** - High-level system design
- **[Components](docs/architecture/components.md)** - Detailed component breakdown
- **[Patterns](docs/architecture/patterns.md)** - Design patterns catalog

### 📊 Analysis
- **[Static Analysis](docs/analysis/static-analysis.md)** - Code quality and complexity metrics
- **[Dynamic Analysis](docs/analysis/dynamic-analysis.md)** - Runtime behavior analysis

### 📋 Specifications
- **[Interfaces](docs/specifications/interfaces.md)** - API contracts
- **[Data Models](docs/specifications/data-models.md)** - Data structures
- **[Traceability](docs/specifications/traceability.md)** - Requirements mapping

### 📈 Visualizations
- **[Diagrams](docs/visualizations/diagrams.md)** - Mermaid diagrams
- **[Interactive](docs/visualizations/interactive.md)** - p5.js visualizations

### 📝 Decisions
- **[ADR-001](docs/decisions/ADR-001-on-device-inference.md)** - On-device inference
- **[ADR-002](docs/decisions/ADR-002-mlc-llm-framework.md)** - MLC-LLM framework
- **[ADR-003](docs/decisions/ADR-003-reactive-state-management.md)** - StateFlow

### 🎓 Theory
- **[Formal Methods](docs/theory/formal-methods.md)** - Mathematical foundations
- **[Complexity](docs/theory/complexity.md)** - Algorithmic complexity

### 📖 References
- **[Bibliography](docs/references/bibliography.md)** - Complete citations
- **[Glossary](docs/references/glossary.md)** - Terminology definitions

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Android Studio Hedgehog (2023.1.1) or later
- JDK 17 or later
- Android SDK API 31+ (Android 12)
- NDK 27.2.12479018

### Build Instructions

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/google-ai-edge/nimittam.git
cd nimittam/Android/src

# Build the project
./gradlew assembleDebug

# Run tests
./gradlew test

# Install on device
./gradlew installDebug
```

### Project Structure

```
Android/src/
├── app/
│   ├── src/main/
│   │   ├── java/com/google/ai/edge/gallery/
│   │   │   ├── common/          # Utilities
│   │   │   ├── data/            # Data layer
│   │   │   ├── di/              # Dependency injection
│   │   │   ├── llm/             # LLM engine
│   │   │   ├── performance/     # Performance monitoring
│   │   │   ├── ui/              # UI layer
│   │   │   └── util/            # Utilities
│   │   ├── cpp/                 # Native code
│   │   └── assets/              # Model files
│   └── build.gradle.kts
├── gradle/
└── settings.gradle.kts
```

## Technology Stack

| Category | Technology | Version |
|----------|-----------|---------|
| Language | Kotlin | 2.0+ |
| UI Framework | Jetpack Compose | 2024.02.00 |
| DI Framework | Hilt | 2.51 |
| Database | Room | 2.6.1 |
| Preferences | DataStore | 1.1.1 |
| Async | Coroutines | 1.8.0 |
| LLM Runtime | MLC-LLM | Latest |
| Build System | Gradle | 8.7 |

## Performance Metrics

| Metric | Target | Achieved |
|--------|--------|----------|
| Token Throughput | 15-30 t/s | ✓ 25-40 t/s (GPU) |
| First Token Latency | <200ms | ✓ ~150ms |
| UI Frame Time | <16.67ms | ✓ ~12ms avg |
| Cold Start | <2s | ✓ ~1.5s |
| Cache Hit Rate | >85% | ✓ ~88% |

## Requirements

### Minimum
- Android 12 (API 31)
- 6GB RAM
- 2GB free storage
- Vulkan 1.0 capable GPU

### Recommended
- Android 14 (API 34)
- 8GB+ RAM
- 4GB free storage
- Vulkan 1.1+ capable GPU

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

```
Copyright 2025 Google LLC

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

## Acknowledgments

- [Apache TVM](https://tvm.apache.org/) and [MLC-LLM](https://llm.mlc.ai/) teams
- [Jetpack Compose](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/compose) team
- [Qwen](https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen) model creators

## Contact

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/google-ai-edge/nimittam/issues)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/google-ai-edge/nimittam/discussions)

---

<p align="center">
  <i>Built with ❤️ by the Google AI Edge team</i>
</p>

Commit message:

docs: relicense project from Apache-2.0 to MPL-2.0
Update all copyright headers and license notices across the codebase
to Mozilla Public License 2.0 (MPL-2.0). Change copyright holder from
Google LLC to Tanmay Patil in all 81 affected files.

Files updated include:
- All Kotlin source files in Android/src
- C++ JNI implementation files
- Gradle build configuration files
- XML resource and manifest files
- Protocol buffer definitions
- Project documentation and ADRs
- Git ignore files

README.md, after:

# Nimittam

> Privacy-first, on-device Large Language Model inference for Android

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MPL%202.0-orange.svg)](LICENSE)
[![API](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-31%2B-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](https://android-arsenal.com/api?level=31)
[![Kotlin](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kotlin-2.0-blue.svg)](https://kotlinlang.org)

## Overview

Nimittam is a privacy-first Android application that brings Large Language Model (LLM) inference directly to your device. Built on Apache TVM's MLC-LLM framework, it enables real-time AI conversations without sending your data to external servers.

### Key Features

- 🔒 **Privacy-First**: All inference happens on-device; no data leaves your phone
- ⚡ **Real-Time Performance**: 15-30 tokens/second with GPU acceleration
- 🔋 **Adaptive Power Management**: Automatically adjusts to battery and thermal conditions
- 💾 **Smart Caching**: Multi-level cache system for responsive interactions
- 🌙 **Modern UI**: Jetpack Compose with glassmorphism design
- 📱 **Offline Capable**: Works without internet connection

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Presentation Layer                        │
│  ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐         │
│  │  ChatScreen  │ │ HistoryScreen│ │SettingsScreen│         │
│  └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘         │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                      Domain Layer                            │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │                   LlmEngine Interface                   │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
│  ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐         │
│  │MlcLlmEngine  │ │ ModelManager │ │HardwareDetector│        │
│  └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘         │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                      Service Layer                           │
│  ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐         │
│  │   Performance│ │    Memory    │ │     Cache    │         │
│  │   Monitor    │ │   Manager    │ │   Manager    │         │
│  └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘         │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                       Data Layer                             │
│  ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐         │
│  │  Room DB     │ │  DataStore   │ │  File System │         │
│  └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘         │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Documentation

Our comprehensive documentation suite follows IEEE/ACM software engineering standards:

### 📚 Documentation Hub
- **[Documentation Index](docs/index.md)** - Start here for navigation

### 🏗️ Architecture
- **[Overview](docs/architecture/overview.md)** - High-level system design
- **[Components](docs/architecture/components.md)** - Detailed component breakdown
- **[Patterns](docs/architecture/patterns.md)** - Design patterns catalog

### 📊 Analysis
- **[Static Analysis](docs/analysis/static-analysis.md)** - Code quality and complexity metrics
- **[Dynamic Analysis](docs/analysis/dynamic-analysis.md)** - Runtime behavior analysis

### 📋 Specifications
- **[Interfaces](docs/specifications/interfaces.md)** - API contracts
- **[Data Models](docs/specifications/data-models.md)** - Data structures
- **[Traceability](docs/specifications/traceability.md)** - Requirements mapping

### 📈 Visualizations
- **[Diagrams](docs/visualizations/diagrams.md)** - Mermaid diagrams
- **[Interactive](docs/visualizations/interactive.md)** - p5.js visualizations

### 📝 Decisions
- **[ADR-001](docs/decisions/ADR-001-on-device-inference.md)** - On-device inference
- **[ADR-002](docs/decisions/ADR-002-mlc-llm-framework.md)** - MLC-LLM framework
- **[ADR-003](docs/decisions/ADR-003-reactive-state-management.md)** - StateFlow

### 🎓 Theory
- **[Formal Methods](docs/theory/formal-methods.md)** - Mathematical foundations
- **[Complexity](docs/theory/complexity.md)** - Algorithmic complexity

### 📖 References
- **[Bibliography](docs/references/bibliography.md)** - Complete citations
- **[Glossary](docs/references/glossary.md)** - Terminology definitions

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Android Studio Hedgehog (2023.1.1) or later
- JDK 17 or later
- Android SDK API 31+ (Android 12)
- NDK 27.2.12479018

### Build Instructions

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/google-ai-edge/nimittam.git
cd nimittam/Android/src

# Build the project
./gradlew assembleDebug

# Run tests
./gradlew test

# Install on device
./gradlew installDebug
```

### Project Structure

```
Android/src/
├── app/
│   ├── src/main/
│   │   ├── java/com/google/ai/edge/gallery/
│   │   │   ├── common/          # Utilities
│   │   │   ├── data/            # Data layer
│   │   │   ├── di/              # Dependency injection
│   │   │   ├── llm/             # LLM engine
│   │   │   ├── performance/     # Performance monitoring
│   │   │   ├── ui/              # UI layer
│   │   │   └── util/            # Utilities
│   │   ├── cpp/                 # Native code
│   │   └── assets/              # Model files
│   └── build.gradle.kts
├── gradle/
└── settings.gradle.kts
```

## Technology Stack

| Category | Technology | Version |
|----------|-----------|---------|
| Language | Kotlin | 2.0+ |
| UI Framework | Jetpack Compose | 2024.02.00 |
| DI Framework | Hilt | 2.51 |
| Database | Room | 2.6.1 |
| Preferences | DataStore | 1.1.1 |
| Async | Coroutines | 1.8.0 |
| LLM Runtime | MLC-LLM | Latest |
| Build System | Gradle | 8.7 |

## Performance Metrics

| Metric | Target | Achieved |
|--------|--------|----------|
| Token Throughput | 15-30 t/s | ✓ 25-40 t/s (GPU) |
| First Token Latency | <200ms | ✓ ~150ms |
| UI Frame Time | <16.67ms | ✓ ~12ms avg |
| Cold Start | <2s | ✓ ~1.5s |
| Cache Hit Rate | >85% | ✓ ~88% |

## Requirements

### Minimum
- Android 12 (API 31)
- 6GB RAM
- 2GB free storage
- Vulkan 1.0 capable GPU

### Recommended
- Android 14 (API 34)
- 8GB+ RAM
- 4GB free storage
- Vulkan 1.1+ capable GPU

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

```
Copyright 2025 Tanmay Patil

This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
file, You can obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
```

This project is licensed under the **Mozilla Public License 2.0 (MPL-2.0)**, a moderately strict
open-source license that requires modifications to be shared while remaining compatible with
proprietary code. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.

## Acknowledgments

- [Apache TVM](https://tvm.apache.org/) and [MLC-LLM](https://llm.mlc.ai/) teams
- [Jetpack Compose](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/compose) team
- [Qwen](https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen) model creators

## Contact

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/google-ai-edge/nimittam/issues)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/google-ai-edge/nimittam/discussions)

---

<p align="center">
  <i>Built with ❤️ by the Google AI Edge team</i>
</p>
